BANDIT 6

okay when looking at the specifications 

we see that the file is located somewhere on the server

with the following specifications

owned by user bandit7
owned by group bandit6
33 bytes in size

Luckily, that's easier than it looks.

So first off, we're going to have to use the find command (like previously).

And we're going to search through the root directory with the following specifications:

find (the command to find a file)

/ (search through the root directory)

- Type F (saying what we're looking for is a file).

-user bandit7 (saying the file is owned by bandit7)

-group bandit6 (saying the file is in bandit6 group)

and

-size 33c (saying the file is 33 bytes big)

So putting it together, it looks like

find / -type f -user bandit7 -group bandit6 -size 33c 

We will see a lot of files pop up with "permission denied," so you have to look for the file without the "permission denied" next to it.

Which, when we do, we find

/var/lib/dpkg/info/bandit7.password

and we get our flag

BANDIT 7

When logging in, we see a data.txt file. 

It is huge with a lot of lines of code.

Let's look at the specifications.

The password is next to the word millionth. 

So in order to look through files for specific strings, we need to use grep.

Simple enough using grep, we can look for the word millionth in the file by typing

grep "millionth" data.txt

and boom theres our flag

BANDIT 8

When we list what's in the directory, we see "data.txt" again.

Let's look at the specifications.

"The password for the next level is stored in the file data.txt and is the only line of text that occurs only once"

Okay, so using three commands 

grep, sort, and uniq, we can find that out.

So using grep, let's find all the text and then pipe that into sort, which sorts each line by putting identical ones adjacent to each other, and by piping that output into uniq and by using the -u flag, we can print out the unique line.

So it'll look like grep "text" | sort data.txt | uniq -u

we then find the flag :)

BANDIT 9

Okay, so when logging in, it looks like we are looking at the data.txt file again.

It's a good thing we're equipped to deal with tons of data. :)

Let's look at the specifications.

"The password for the next level is stored in the file data.txt in one of the few human-readable strings, preceded by several ‘=’ characters."

So since we don't exactly know how many equal signs are in it, we can print all of them around strings.

So using the strings command (which searches for strings in a file)
and piping that into a grep command looking for all of those strings with equal signs around them 

which looks like "strings data.txt | grep ".*=""

we find

========== the
9=H`
[!#=Z
========== password
xWf=
f\Z'========== is
e=i{\#
/1=s
nS=F
M=Sl
=LGT
y =1
========== (password)

great we found the flag :)

ONTO THE NEXT :)))

BANDIT 10

We see another data file. Let's look at the specifications.

We see, "The password for the next level is stored in the file data.txt, which contains base64 encoded data"

Okay, great, seems simple enough. 

Using grep, we can find base64 in the file.

(Had to look up the specific command because it's too long to commit to memory.)

grep -E '[A-Za-z0-9+/]{4}*([A-Za-z0-9+/]{4}|[A-Za-z0-9+/]{3}=|[A-Za-z0-9+/]{2}==)' file.txt   which basically searches for base64 in any file

Throwing that in a base64 decoder, we see the flag. :)
