---
layout: post
title: Bandit 0 - 5
category: OverTheWire
---


## BANDIT 0

In order to get past bandit0, the only knowledge you need is how to use `cat` and `ssh`.

When SSH'ing into any machine, first you have to get a username (in this case `bandit0`), and you'll need the server (in this case `bandit.labs.overthewire.com`) and the port. In order to specify the port, you need to use the `-p` flag and then the port number (`2220`) in this case.

So it'll look like this.

Template: `(username)@(server) -p (port)`

for this level, it is

`bandit0@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220`

The password is `bandit0` to login

Once in the server, a simple `ls` command shows all the files in the directory.

`"Ls"` means to list

and you will see a readme file, and in order to read it, you need the `cat` command

So you do `cat (filename)`, which is `readme` in this case, and boom, you'll get the flag.

## BANDIT 1

Okay, so after you manage to get the flag from the previous level, you can use that to log in to the user `bandit1`

Once logged in, we can give a list command (`ls`), and we see a file that's named `-`

You can't traditionally access that file with `cat` using normal means. What you need to do is

`cat` that file by using the command

`cat ./-`

When using `./` in this case, we are telling the machine to `cat` the file named `-` in this current directory (so it doesn't mistake the dash as a flag).

Once the file is read, we get another password and can move to level 2

## BANDIT 2

Okay, so after getting the flag on level 1, we can log in to level 2

By using SSH, we log in to `bandit2` using the password/flag we found

Once we get in, we notice a file with spaces in its name (intentional).

From what we learned last time when opening a dashed name file in Linux by using `./-`

we can use the same command here

using `./--spaces\ in\ this\ filename--`

we can open it and get the flag

What they want you to understand is when opening a file with spaces in its name, we need to use `\` a backslash after the word so the shell doesn't interpret the space as a separator between commands; it escapes the space, making it null.

Anyway, after getting the flag, we can move to Bandit 3. :)

## BANDIT 3

So when we log in and list, we see an in here directory.

In order to change directories (folders), we need to use the `cd` command.

Which literally means change directory.

So we `cd` into the directory and list out the files, and WHAT? THERE'S NOTHING?!?!

Don't panic; the file is there, it's just hidden. :)

So what we can do is utilize the `ls` command to list all files (even hidden ones).

With `ls -al` 
(I like to think "al" literally means "all" so its list is "all.")

we see a hidden file called `...hiding-from-you`

So we can `cat` the file the same way we `cat` all the other weirdly named files by using

`cat ./... Hiding-From-You`

and we get the flag

Moving to Bandit 4 now. See you there. :)

## BANDIT 4

So when logging in and changing the directory into the `inhere` directory, we see multiple files.

Looking back on the overthewire page, we see

"The password for the next level is stored in the only human-readable file in the `inhere` directory."

So we need a way to look at each file and look for the only one with human-readable text.

Luckily, there's a simple way to do that. :)

Using `find`

We can say, Find files in this directory, run `file` on each one, then pipe the output of `file` into `grep` to show only those identified as containing text.

Using the command

`find . -type f -exec file {}\; | grep -i text`

and we see that `file07` contains the flag

## BANDIT 5

Okay, so we log in to Bandit 5 and change directories into `inhere`, and woah, we see 
19 directories filled with files. How could we ever find the right file???

Well, looking back at the specifications, we see

"The password for the next level is stored in a file somewhere under the `inhere` directory and has all the following properties:

- human-readable
- 1033 bytes in size
- not executable"

Okay, that makes it easier.

So, like last time, we are going to use the `find` command (because we're looking for a file) in the `inhere` directory. The file we're looking for is a regular type of file; it's not executable. Its size is 1033 bytes. In the `file` command, we use "c" for bytes.

Once those parameters are met, we're going to run a `file` command on all those files, then pipe that output into `grep` and look for text in the file.

Here's the command.

`find ./ -type f ! -executable -size 1033c -exec file {} \; | grep -i "text"`

And boom, we see the `maybehere07` directory has a file `2` that meets all those requirements

and there's our flag.

